>> CNN'S OREN LIEBERMANN
ENTERED GAZA WITH THE ISRAEL
DEFENSE FORCES TO SEE THE
TUNNEL SHAFT NEAR AL-SHIFA, AND
WHAT LIES BENEATH.
CNN REPORTED FROM GAZA UNDER
IDF ESCORT AT ALL TIMES, AS A
CONDITION FOR JOURNALISTS TO
JOIN THEM.
THE MEDIA OUTLETS HAVE TO
SUBMIT FITTED FOOTAGE FILMED IN
GAZA TO THE IDF FOR REVIEW.
CNN RETAINED EDITORIAL CONTROL
OVER THE FINAL REPORT, HERE IS
ORANGE REPORT.
>> WE GO UNDER COVER OF
DARKNESS, AS WE CROSS THE
BORDER FENCE IT'S LIGHTS OUT
ACROSS THE GAZA STRIP.
ESCORTED BY THE TANK, SWITCH
INTO PERSONNEL CARRIER FOR THE
FINAL STRETCH.
EVEN THROUGH A NIGHT VISION
SCREEN, YOU CAN SEE THE
MAGNITUDE OF THE DESTRUCTION ON
THE STREETS OF GAZA CITY.
WE OFF-LOAD AT THE AL-SHIFA
HOSPITAL, MAKE OUR WAY ACROSS
--
OR WHAT'S LEFT OF IT.
WE NEED TO KEEP OUR LIGHTS OFF
MOST OF THE TIME OR RISK
EXPOSING OUR POSITION.
CNN REPORTED FROM GAZA UNDER
ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES ESCORT AT
ALL TIMES.
AS A CONDITION FOR JOURNALIST
TO JOIN THIS WITH THE IDF, THEY
MUST SUMMIT FOOTAGE FELL TO THE
ISRAELI MILITARY CENSORS FOR
REVIEW.
WITH THE HOSPITAL COMPOUND WE
WAIT INSIDE A STRUCTURE TO MAKE
SURE THE AREA IS SECURE BEFORE
MOVING A SHORT DISTANCE TO THE
EXPOSED SHAFT.
>> HERE IS THE ENTRANCE, YOU
SEE WHAT'S A LADDER ACCESS, AS
I STEP OVER HERE, IT'S
DIFFICULT TO SEE HOW DOWN IT
GOES.
IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S A CENTRAL
SHAFT OR STAIRCASE.
AND THE SHAFT THEN DISAPPEARS
INTO THE DARKNESS.
>> WE MOVE AROUND THE OPENING
FOR A BETTER LOOK AT THE SHAFT,
IT'S CLEAR FROM HERE THAT THIS
IS MEANT TO GO DEEP
UNDERGROUND.
>> WHICH DIRECTION WAS THE
TUNNEL GOING IN?
>> WE ASSUME THE TUNNEL GOES
OUT, IT HAS ANOTHER ORDER THIS
WAY, TOWARDS THE HOSPITAL.
YOU EXIT THE HOSPITAL TO
OUTSIDE [INAUDIBLE]
THE WAY HAMAS IS WORKING AS
IT'S GOING OUT SOMEWHERE,
SHOOTING TO THE FORCES AND
GOING BACK INSIDE TO THE SAFE
PLACE.
>> WE WEREN'T ALLOWED TO ENTER
THE SHAFT, ISRAELI MILITARY
HAVE SPECIAL GEAR DOWN TO SEE
WHERE IT LEADS.
INSIDE THE VIDEO SHOWS A SPIRAL
STAIRCASE AS THE CAMERA ORIENTS
ITSELF IT MOVES FORWARD INTO A
TUNNEL.
THE TUNNEL MAKES A SHARP LEFT
TURN AND THE END OF ANOTHER
PATH --
AND ARCH CONCRETE TOP.
THERE WAS A METAL DOOR THAT
THEY HAVE NOT YET OPENED AS
THEY FEAR IT'S BOOBY TRAPPED.
THE IDF SPOKESMAN, DANIEL
HAGARI, SOME OF THE HOSTAGES
TAKEN WERE ALSO BROUGHT TO THE
HOSPITAL.
HE SAYS THE BODY OF NOAH
MARCIANO WAS DISCOVERED 50
METERS FROM THE COMPOUND.
>> WE HAD EVIDENCE THEY WERE
HOLDING HOSTAGE HOSTAGES, AND
THEY WERE BRINGING THEM TO THE
AL-SHIFA HOSPITAL, THE PLACES
THEY MAY HAVE HELD THEM.
>> THIS IS NOT PROOF OF A HAMAS
COMMAND CENTER, WITH
HEADQUARTERS OF ME AT THE
HOSPITAL, BUT THEY CONTINUE TO
BUILD ITS CASE THAT HAMAS USES
THE SANCTUARY THE HOSPITAL --
HAVE DENIED.
THE IDF'S ABILITY TO CONTINUE
ITS OPERATION IN GAZA, THE
CREDIBILITY OF ISRAEL AS THE
NUMBER KILLED IN THE FIGHTING
SURPASSES 12,000.
ACCORDING TO THE HAMAS MINISTRY
OF HEALTH.
THE IDF AS ONE OF ITS SYSTEMS
HAVE DESTROYED HAMAS BUT WITH
INTERNATIONAL CRITICISM
MOUNTING, ISRAEL NEEDS TO SHOW
THE TEAR ORGANIZATION USING GAS
AND CIVILIANS AS COVER TO
JUSTIFY AN ONGOING WAR.
OR LIEBERMAN CNN, IN GAZA.
>> OREN GOES INTO MUCH MORE
DETAIL ABOUT WHAT HE SAW IN
GAZA, AND YOU CAN READ ABOUT IT
ON CNN.COM.
CNN'S CLARE SEBASTIAN IS
FOLLOWING DEVELOPMENTS, AND
JOINS US LIVE FROM LONDON.
GOOD MORNING CLAIRE, WHAT MORE
ARE YOU LEARNING ABOUT THE IDF
VIDEOS THAT CLAIMS TO SHOW A
VIDEO OF A TUNNEL.
AND THE CCTV FOOTAGE THAT
REPORTEDLY SHOWS HAMAS HOSTAGES
BEING BROUGHT INTO THE HOSPITAL
ON OCTOBER SEVEN.
>> YES ROSEMARY, THEY HAVE BEEN
PUTTING OUT PIECES OF EVIDENCE,
IMAGES, VIDEOS CENSUS TARGETED
AND PRECISE OPERATION AT
AL-SHIFA BEGAN OVERNIGHT INTO
WEDNESDAY LAST WEEK.
THEY ASSURED US ON WEDNESDAY,
WHAT THEY SAY WAS AN EXPOSED
TUNNEL SHAFT.
WE'VE SEEN A REAL EXPANSION OF
THIS THE LAST 12 HOURS OR SO.
THE VIDEO SHOWS THE CAMERA
BEING LOWERED, ALLOWING
INTERNATIONAL JOURNALIST LIKE
OUR OWN OREN LIEBERMANN TO SEE
THE TUNNEL SHAFTED SELF.
NOW, WE HAVE THE CCTV FOOTAGE,
WHICH THE IDF CLAIMS HOSTAGES
BEING BROUGHT INTO AL-SHIFA, ON
THE VERY DAY OF THAT HAMAS
MASSACRE IN ISRAEL ON OCTOBER
SEVEN.
WHICH WOULD SHOW, ALTHOUGH WE
CANNOT VERIFY THE AUTHENTICITY,
OR IDENTITY.
BUT IT WAS SHOW THAT THEY'VE
BEEN USING THE COMPLEX SINCE
THE BEGINNING.
WHAT THE IDF SIZES AND INJURED
HOSTAGE, BEING BROUGHT IN,
CLEARLY STILL BLEEDING.
ONE IS NEPALI, AM ONE IS.
TY HAHN LAST MEANWHILE IS
QUESTIONING THE HEALTH MINISTRY,
RATHER THAN QUESTION THE
AUTHENTICITY OF THIS.
SAYING ALL IT REALLY SHOWS IS
THAT ANYONE WHO NEEDS MEDICAL
TREATMENT AT AL-SHIFA WAS GIVEN
THAT MEDICAL TREATMENT.
AND WE SEE ONE HOSTAGE THAT WAS
NOT INJURED.
WE SEE THIS CAMPAIGN FROM
INJURY AL TO REALLY TRY TO
PROVE ITS CLAIM, AS IT HAS BEEN
CLAIMING FOR WEEKS NOW, THAT
HAMAS IS OPERATING A COMMANDING
CONTROL NODE UNDER THE AL-SHIFA
HOSPITAL.
IF THEY CAN CONCLUSIVELY PROVED,
THAT THEY HAVE NOT CONCLUSIVELY
PROVEN IT YET.
THEY HAVE NOT WITH THE TUNNEL,
THEY HAVE NOT GONE THROUGH THE
BLAST PROOF DOOR, THEY ASSUME
IT LEADS TO THE HOSPITAL, BUT
THEY DO NOT KNOW YET.
IF THEY CAN PROVE, AMID
MOUNTING CRITICISM, THAT THE
HOSPITAL IS BEING USED FOR
MILITARY PURPOSES AND IT LOSES
ITS PROTECTIVE STATUS UNDER
INTERNATIONAL LAW.
PRESSURE IS MOUNTING
INTERNATIONALLY, MEANWHILE WE
ARE HEARING FROM THE WHITE
HOUSE THAT HOSTAGE NEGOTIATIONS
ARE PROGRESSING CLOSER THAN
THEY HAVE EVER BEEN.
THOSE CCTV VIDEOS ADD EXTRA
URGENCY TO, THAT IN PARTICULAR.
ROSEMARY?
>> CLARE SEBASTIAN JOINING US
LIVE FROM LONDON, MANY THANKS.
LET'S BRING IN RETIRED COLONEL
CEDRIC LEIGHTON.
COLONEL, IT'S ALWAYS GOOD TO SEE
YOU, I WANT TO BRING US BACK TO
SOME OF THAT VIDEO WE SHOWED AT
THE BEGINNING.
BECAUSE AT THE END OF THE VIDEO,
WE SEE A CLOSED METAL DOOR.
AND THE IDF SAYS THAT THAT DOOR
UNDER THE HOSPITAL HAS NOT BEEN
OPENED OUT OF FEAR OF IT BEING
BOOBY-TRAPPED.
WHAT COULD BE BEHIND THE DOOR
THAT WE SEE IN THE IDF VIDEO?
>> YEAH, GOOD MORNING, KASIE,
THERE COULD BE A LOT OF THINGS
BEHIND THAT DOOR, ONE
SUPPOSITION IS THAT IT'S AN
ARMED STORAGE FACILITY BY HAMAS.
THAT THEY HAVE A LOT OF WEAPONS
STORED BEHIND THAT DOOR.
MORE LIKELY, THOUGH, GIVEN THE
TYPE OF DOOR THAT IT IS IT'S A
BLAST DOOR THAT'S DESIGNED TO
WITHSTAND EXPLOSIONS, IT'S
POSSIBLE THAT IT CONTAINS
COMMUNICATIONS GEAR FOR HAMAS
AND IF THAT'S THE CASE, THAT
COULD BE IN LINE WITH THE GEAR
THAT THE ISRAELIS HAVE REPORTED
THAT THE COMMAND AND CONTROL
CENTER FOR HAMAS.
THERE ARE ALL OTHER KINDS OF
POSSIBILITIES, BUT THOSE ARE THE
TWO MOST LIKELY.
AND IT COULD BE A COMBINATION OF
THOSE TWO.
SO, THAT'S THE KIND OF THING
THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT, CLEARLY,
THEY WANTED TO PROTECT THIS
AREA, HAMAS DID.
IT'S ALSO POSSIBLE THAT THERE
MAY BE OTHER ELEMENTS THERE OF,
YOU KNOW, ACTUAL TROOPS THERE.
AND ACTUAL HAMAS FIGHTERS THERE.
SO, THAT'S, YOU KNOW, THAT'S
ALWAYS A POSSIBILITY.
BUT OF COURSE, THE ISRAELIS ARE
WORRIED THIS MIGHT BE A
BOOBY-TRAPPED AREA SO THEY'RE
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO GET
THERE WITHOUT DESTROYING
THEMSELVES OR DAMAGING THE
EVIDENCE THAT MIGHT BE BEHIND
THAT DOOR.
>> RIGHT.
OKAY.
SO, WE ALSO SHOWED AND THE CCTV
FOOTAGE THAT THE IDF RELEASED OF
HAMAS MOVING TWO HOSTAGES ONE IS
NEPALL
NEPALI, THE OTHER IS THAI.
WHERE MIGHT THOSE HOSTAGES BE
NOW?
AND WHAT DOES THE FACT THAT THEY
CAME THROUGH THE HOSPITAL TELL
YOU?
>> WELL, IT'S HARD TO SAY WHERE
THEY MIGHT BE NOW.
THE SUPPOSITION WOULD BE THAT
THEY WOULD BE IN THE TUNNELS
SOMEWHERE ELSE, PERHAPS, WITHIN
GAZA.
OF COURSE, ONE OTHER
POSSIBILITY, YOU KNOW, THEY
COULD BE BEHIND THAT GLASS DOOR
WHICH I DON'T THINK IS LIKELY.
BUT YOU NEVER KNOW IN A CASE
LIKE THIS.
AS FAR AS THE FACT THAT THEY
CAME INTO THIS HOSPITAL, IF
EVERYTHING CHECKS OUT IN TERMS
OF THE ACCURACY OF THIS VIDEO
AND THES REALLY ASSERTION THAT,
ACCORDING, YOU KNOW, TO THE IDF.
THAT TELLS YOU THAT, CLEARLY,
HAMAS HAS SOME KIND OF ACTIVITY
AT THE AL SHIFA HOSPITAL.
NORMALLY, HOSTAGE TAKERS WILL
BRING THEIR HOSTAGES TO A PLACE
THAT IS SAFE FOR THEM.
AND IT COULD ALSO BE A MAJOR
NODE FOR THEM, EITHER A
HEADQUARTERS TYPE ELEMENT OR
SOME OTHER INSTALLATION THAT
THEY HAVE CONTROL OVER, THAT'S
WHY THIS IS PARTICULARLY
NOTEWORTHY.
>> RETIRED GENERAL CEDRIC
LEIGHTON, THANK YOU FOR GETTING
US STARTED.